Port remaining documented C# code style rules to new format (#20892)
dotnet/docs: docs/fundamentals/code-analysis/style-rules/ide0007-ide0008.md

---
title: "IDE0007 and IDE0008: 'var' preferences"
description: "Learn about code analysis rules IDE0007 and IDE0008: 'var' preferences"
ms.date: 09/30/2020
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- IDE0007
- IDE0008
- csharp_style_var_for_built_in_types
- csharp_style_var_when_type_is_apparent
- csharp_style_var_elsewhere
helpviewer_keywords:
- IDE0007
- IDE0008
- csharp_style_var_for_built_in_types
- csharp_style_var_when_type_is_apparent
- csharp_style_var_elsewhere
author: gewarren
ms.author: gewarren
dev_langs:
- CSharp
---
# 'var' preferences (IDE0007 and IDE0008)

|Property|Value|
|-|-|
| **Rule ID** | IDE0007 and IDE0008 |
| **Title** | IDE0007: Use 'var' instead of explicit type<br/> IDE0008: Use explicit type instead of 'var' |
| **Category** | Style |
| **Subcategory** | Language rules |
| **Applicable languages** | C# |

## Overview

> The style rules in this section concern the use of the [var](/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/keywords/var) keyword versus an explicit type in a variable declaration. This rule can be applied separately to built-in types, when the type is apparent, and elsewhere.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The style rules in this section concern the use of the [var](/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/keywords/var) keyword versus an explicit type in a variable declaration. This rule can be applied separately to built-in types, places where the type is apparent, and elsewhere.
```

int x = 5;
```

## csharp_style_var_when_type_is_apparent

|Property|Value|
|-|-|
| **Option name** | csharp_style_var_when_type_is_apparent |
| **Option values** | `true` - Prefer `var` when the type is already mentioned on the right-hand side of a declaration expression<br /><br />`false` - Prefer explicit type over `var` when the type is already mentioned on the right-hand side of a declaration expression |
| **Default option value** | `true` |

#### Example

```csharp
// csharp_style_var_when_type_is_apparent = true
var obj = new Customer();

// csharp_style_var_when_type_is_apparent = false
Customer obj = new Customer();
```

## csharp_style_var_elsewhere

|Property|Value|
|-|-|
| **Option name** | csharp_style_var_elsewhere |
| **Option values** | `true` - Prefer `var` over explicit type in all cases, unless overridden by another code style rule<br /><br />`false` - Prefer explicit type over `var` in all cases, unless overridden by another code style rule |
| **Default option value** | `true` |

#### Example

```csharp
// csharp_style_var_elsewhere = true
var f = this.Init();

// csharp_style_var_elsewhere = false
bool f = this.Init();
```

## See also

> - [Code style language rules](language-rules.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [var keyword](/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/keywords/var)
- [Code style language rules](language-rules.md)
```

---
title: "IDE0007 and IDE0008: 'var' preferences"
description: "Learn about code analysis rules IDE0007 and IDE0008: 'var' preferences"
ms.date: 09/30/2020
ms.topic: reference
f1_keywords:
- IDE0007
- IDE0008
- csharp_style_var_for_built_in_types
- csharp_style_var_when_type_is_apparent

> - csharp_style_var_elsewhere

Reviewer 2: Does Roslyn support these f1_keywords?
